You can kill a person with a banana if you throw it hard enough.
Banana peel powder can be used for removing heavy metal contamination in water.
Banana squash is often sold in slices at markets as consumers can be intimidated and overwhelmed by its large size.
Archaeological evidence suggests that bananas have been cultivated since at least 5,000 BC, and possibly since as far back as 8,000 BC.
In all the important festivals and occasions of Hindus, the serving of bananas plays a prominent part.
Extracting banana juice is difficult, because when a banana is compressed, it simply turns to pulp.
The yellow sweet banana is a mutant strain of the cooking banana, discovered in 1836 by Jamaican Jean Francois Poujot, who found one of the banana trees on his plantation was bearing yellow fruit rather than green or red. Upon tasting the new discovery, he found it to be sweet in its raw state, without the need for cooking. He quickly began cultivating this sweet variety.
Banana pasta is a type of pasta prepared using unripe, green bananas that are dried and then milled into banana flour.
The pontianak is a female vampiric ghost in Malay mythology, which is said to reside inside of a banana tree during the day. The pontianak are said to be the spirits of women who died while pregnant, although the earliest recordings of pontianaks in Malay lore describe the ghost as originating from a stillborn child.
Extended ammunition magazines are sometimes referred to as 'banana clips' due to their often curved shape.
Rhino Horn bananas have the longest fruits among banana cultivars, reaching up to 2 feet in length.
Alexander the Great brought bananas to Europe, where they spread to the Mediterranean, including Italy (Rome) and North Africa. The Portuguese brought them from West Africa to the Caribbean, and from there to Britain, with the first recorded sale of bananas in England in 1633.
Antonius Musa was the personal physician to Roman emperor Octavius Augustus, and it was he who was credited for promoting cultivation of the exotic fruit from African in 63 to 14 B.C.
Arab traders are believed to have brought the banana to Madagascar in the 5th century, and from there it spread to mainland Africa.
Bananas and plantains constitute a major staple food crop for millions of people in developing countries. Most producers are small-scale farmers either for home consumption or local markets.
Because bananas and plantains produce fruit year-round, they provide a valuable food source during the hunger season (when the food from one annual/semi-annual harvest has been consumed, and the next is still to come).
Bananas and plantains are important for global food security.
Matsuo Bashō, the most famous poet of the Edo period, is named after the Japanese word for banana plant.
In 2016, world production of bananas and plantains was 148 million tons.
Bananas can be used not just as a wide variety of foods (including desserts, condiments, flour, stews, and curries), but can also be used to make clothing fiber, paper, and for removing heavy metal contamination in water.
A convenience store cashier in Mississauga, Canada once foiled an attempted robbery by striking the suspect with a banana. Bonus fact: The responding police were from the Peel Regional Police.
In India, a woman can be married to a banana tree to ward off bad luck. The tree is then felled and yeeted into a river.
False bananas (known locally as Enset) are Ethiopia's most important root crop, a traditional staple in the densely populated south and southwestern parts of Ethiopia.
Banana ketchup was made when there was a shortage of tomato ketchup during World War II, due to lack of tomatoes and a comparatively high production of bananas.
The 'banana equivalent dose' of radiation was developed in 1995 as a simple teaching-tool to educate the public about the natural, small amount of K-40 radiation occurring in every human and in common foods – where the banana was used as an example.
Banana pancakes are popular amongst backpackers and other travelers in South and Southeast Asia. This has elicited the expression "Banana Pancake Trail" for those places in Asia that cater to this group of travelers.
Bananas can be found in other colors, including red (the Musa Coccinea cultivar).
Bananas contain a lot of potassium, making them more radioactive than other fruits. The potassium found in bananas is present as potassium-40 isotope, which is radioactive.
The fastest marathon dressed as a fruit (male) is 2 hr 47 min 41 sec and was achieved by Andrew Lawrence (UK), at the Virgin Money London Marathon, in London, UK, on 24 April 2016 Andrew completed the marathon dressed as a banana.
The scientific name for banana is musa sapientum, which means "fruit of the wise men."
Bananas float in water, as do apples and watermelons.
The type of banana you see in the supermarket is called a Cavendish banana. The preferred variety was originally the Gros Michel, which essentially became extinct by 1960, thanks to a fungus called Panama disease.
Some cultures (most notably Japan) use the fiber in the banana plant to make fabric and sometimes even paper.
The Banana Club Museum, located on Highway 111 in Mecca, Calif. (just south of Palm Springs), houses the world's largest collection devoted to any one fruit. It contains more than 17,000 banana items, most of which have been donated by members.
Thanks to its oil, rubbing the inside of a banana peel on a mosquito bite (or other bug bite) or on poison ivy will help keep it from itching and getting inflamed.
If you rub the inside of a banana peel on a scrape or burn, it will help the pain go away, keep the swelling down, and keep the wound from getting infected.
If you rub the inside of a small piece of banana peel on a wart every night (or tape a piece of peel over the wart), the potassium in the peel can make the wart disappear in one to two weeks.
If you tape a banana peel over a splinter, the enzymes help the splinter work its way out of your skin (and also heal the wound).
To whiten teeth naturally, rub the inside of a banana peel on your teeth for about two minutes every night. If you gargle with salt water, this will heighten the effect. Expect results in about two weeks. It works because of the effect of the potassium, magnesium, and manganese in the banana peel.
Bananas make great conditioner that helps restore dry, damaged hair. Mash a banana and add a tablespoon of heavy cream and a tablespoon of honey to the mixture. Then apply it to dry hair, cover your hair with a shower cap, and then wrap your head in a warm towel. Leave it on for up to an hour and then rinse thoroughly with warm water before shampooing.
Rubbing a banana peel on your forehead can help cure a headache.
Bananas and banana peels make great fertilizer (you can compost them, bury them whole, or cut them in small pieces and mix them with garden soil) because of their phosphorous and potassium content. Roses especially like them.
Rubbing the inside of a banana peel on houseplant leaves makes the leaves shiny.
You can use the inside of a banana peel to clean and polish leather shoes.
Banana peels can be used as a makeshift silver polish — just rub silver with the inside of a peel and then buff with a cloth.
More than 100 billion bananas are eaten every year in the world, making them the fourth most popular agricultural product.
Americans eat an average of 27 pounds of bananas per person every year.
More than 96 percent of American households buy bananas at least once a month.
51 percent of bananas are eaten for breakfast at home.
The highest average per capita consumption of bananas in the world is in Uganda, where residents eat an average of 500 pounds of bananas per person every year. In fact, the Ugandan word matooke means both "food" and "banana."
India produces more bananas than any other country on the planet, accounting for about 28 percent of the worldwide crop. (China is number two, with ten percent.)
A man in India once ate 81 bananas in a half hour.
More songs have been written about bananas than about any other fruit.
Bananas don't actually grow on trees—they grow on plants that are officially classified as an herb (not surprisingly, the world's largest herb). They're in the same family as lilies, orchids, and palms.
Banana plants grow up to 25 feet high, and their leaves can grow to be 9 feet long and 2 feet wide. Their roots can be hundreds of years old.
Bananas are technically berries.
Banana plants grow not from seeds but from bulbs.
A cluster of bananas is called a hand, and a single banana is called a finger. Each banana hand has about 10 to 20 fingers.
About 75 percent of the weight of a banana is water.
A few varieties of wild bananas include bubblegum pink bananas with fuzzy skins, green-and-white striped bananas with pulp the color of orange sherbet, and bananas that taste like strawberries when they're cooked.
Bananas first appeared in written history in the 6th century B.C.
Bananas have been depicted in ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Bananas were probably the first cultivated fruit, and the first banana farms were located in southeast Asia.
Portuguese sailors introduced bananas to the Americas, bringing them from West Africa in the 16th century. 
Bananas first became popular in the United States at the 1876 Philadelphia Centennial Celebration, where they were sold wrapped in foil for 10 cents each.
David Evans Strickler invented the banana split in 1904 when he was a 23-year-old employee at the Tassel Pharmacy soda fountain in Latrobe, Pennsylvania.
Bananas are low in calories and have no fat, no sodium, and no cholesterol. They contain vitamin C, potassium, fiber, and vitamin B6.
Research shows that eating bananas may lower the risk of heart attacks and strokes, as well as decrease the risk of getting some cancers.
Bananas are the only fruit that contains the amino acid tryptophan plus vitamin B6. They help your body produce serotonin—a natural substance that alleviates depression.
About half of all people who are allergic to latex are also allergic to bananas.
Bananas are naturally slightly radioactive, thanks to their potassium content, but the level of radiation is not high enough to cause harm.
Wrapping banana stems tightly in cling wrap will make them last three to five days longer.
Banana peels are actually edible if cooked.
If you peel a banana from the bottom up (holding on to the stem like a handle), you will avoid the stringy bits that cling to the fruit inside.
Bananas ripen best if they are picked when green.
To ripen bananas faster, put them in a sealed container, ideally a brown paper bag. Adding another fruit to the container (such as an apple or even a tomato) will further speed the ripening.
If you put a banana in the refrigerator, the peel will turn dark brown or black, but it won't affect the fruit inside.
Chiquita was initially called the United Fruit Company. In the 20th century, they played a controversial role in the politics of Central America, where they had vast holdings. The company earned the nickname of “The Octopus” in the region because they had their hands in so many political pots.
The CIA-sponsored 1954 coup that overthrew the democratically-elected Guatemalan government headed by Jacobo Arbenz Guzmán is believed to be a direct result of influence by the United Fruit Company, which had an antagonistic relationship with the Arbenz government.
The pejorative term “banana republic” was coined by American writer O. Henry. He used it in reference to Honduras, but the term became widely used in reference to any Latin American, Caribbean, or African country that was politically unstable, relied heavily on basic agriculture, and was not technologically advanced.
The song “Yes, We Have No Bananas” was released in 1923 and became a huge hit. It refers to the banana shortage at the time.
In 2001, Britain recorded 300 incidents of injuries related to bananas. The majority of these involved people slipping on banana peels.
Panama disease, or Fusarium wilt, is a fungus that attacks banana plants. It was reported in Australia in the 19th century.
It is believed that the Cavendish, like the Gros Michel, will be devastated by Panama disease within 20 years and will no longer be able to be produced commercially. This would be a difficult blow to the banana industry.
Plantains are a type of banana that are not as sweet and are usually cooked. While not as commonly eaten in North America, plantains are a dietary staple in many tropical regions.
The strings that go up and down the length of bananas are called Phloem Bundles. They help distribute nutrients to every part of the growing bananas.
The yellow bananas that are most often sold in supermarkets are sometimes called “dessert bananas” because they are soft and sweet.
Lady Finger bananas are small, sweet and have relatively thin skins.
Banana peels are eaten in many parts of the world, though it is not very common in the west.
People have almost entirely bred the seeds out of bananas.
In the Philippines, bananas are used in place of tomatoes to make the popular banana ketchup.
Bananas ripen significantly faster when attached to a bunch.
A thief in Mumbai was forced to eat 48 bananas so that the gold chain he had swallowed when he was arrested would leave his body.
Bananas are curved because they grow upside-down towards the sun.
Banana fibers can be used to purify water.
There are more trade restrictions on bananas than on AK-47s.
In parts of Africa, bananas are used to make wine and beer.